feat: Allow installing only the React or CSS package (#1206)
Amsterdam/design-system: documentation/publishing.md

Release Please uses labels to determine the status of a release.
A release PR gets the label `autorelease: pending` or `autorelease: triggered`.
When running the action again, the PR with those labels gets released, and the labels should be removed.
However, due to GitHub API failures, it’s possible that the label was not removed correctly upon a previous release and Release Please thinks that the previous release is still pending.
Release Please will not create a new release PR if it thinks there is a pending release.
To fix this, check whether any closed PRs still have the `autorelease: pending` or `autorelease: triggered` labels, and remove them.

[See the Release Please docs for more information](https://github.com/googleapis/release-please?tab=readme-ov-file#release-please-bot-does-not-create-a-release-pr-why).

## Dependencies between packages

We’ve established dependencies between our packages for smoother installation.
For instance, our React package relies on our CSS package.

> When you install React, the corresponding version of our CSS package is automatically included.

Author: ```suggestion
When you install our React package, the corresponding version of our CSS package is automatically included.
```

Reviewer: True, installing React is something different :)

Here’s the dependency structure:

```mermaid
graph LR
  RI["React Icons"] --> React
  Tokens --> CSS
  Assets --> CSS
  CSS --> React
```

Managing these dependencies requires extra attention when publishing.
We use [PNPM’s workspace feature](https://pnpm.io/workspaces#publishing-workspace-packages) to define dependencies among our packages.
When we publish upstream packages like CSS and React, the latest specific versions of downstream packages (Tokens, Assets, and React Icons) get listed as dependencies.

This setup works well when we update both CSS and React in a release.
However, issues arise if a release only updates Tokens and Assets without changes to CSS or React.
The latest version of CSS then depends on an older version of Tokens.

To resolve this, we can manually let CSS depend on the latest version of Tokens.
We replace `"@amsterdam/design-system-tokens": "workspace:*"` with `"@amsterdam/design-system-tokens": "x.y.z"` and run `pnpm i` to update the lockfile.

> These changes enable a correct peer dependency in the new CSS package.

Author: ```suggestion
We then release a new version of our CSS package, with the correct peer dependency.
```

> After that, restore the dynamic dependency (`workspace:*`) and run `pnpm i` again.

Author: Do we always want to do this? If we don't make any other changes to the package, we would release a new version without any changes, I think

Reviewer: I’ve relaxed this sentence. Thanks for re-reading.

> The most extreme case requires us to release a new version of Tokens or Assets only, then update and release CSS , then update and release React.

Author: ```suggestion
The most extreme case requires us to release a new version of Tokens or Assets only, then update and release CSS, then update and release React.
```

To fix this, check whether any closed PRs still have the `autorelease: pending` or `autorelease: triggered` labels, and remove them.

[See the Release Please docs for more information](https://github.com/googleapis/release-please?tab=readme-ov-file#release-please-bot-does-not-create-a-release-pr-why).

## Dependencies between packages

> We’ve defined (peer) dependencies between our packages, in order to simplify the install process.

Reviewer 2: I edited the text with LanguageTool. A few, minor suggestions:

```suggestion
We’ve defined (peer) dependencies between our packages, to simplify the installation process.
```

For example, our React package has a peer dependency on our CSS package.
When installing our React package, the correct version of our CSS package is automatically installed with it.

> The dependency tree looks like this:

Reviewer 2: Heb de tekst nog een keer door LanguageTool gehaald. Enkele, kleine aanpassingen gedaan:

```suggestion
We’ve defined (peer) dependencies between our packages, to simplify the installation process. For example, our React package has a peer dependency on our CSS package. When installing our React package, the correct version of our CSS package is automatically installed with it.

The dependency tree looks like this:
```

In other words, we’d replace `"@amsterdam/design-system-tokens": "workspace:*"` with `"@amsterdam/design-system-tokens": "1.2.3"`.
After this, don’t forget to run `pnpm i` to update the lockfile.
The changes to the `package.json` and the lockfile mean we can release a new version of our CSS package, which will contain the correct peer dependency.

Seeing as our CSS package is itself also a peer dependency of our React package, in the most extreme case we would have to do something like:

1. Release a new version of our tokens and / or assets packages only.
2. Manually change the peer dependency of our CSS package and release that.
3. Manually change the peer dependency of our React package and release that.

This probably won’t happen very often, seeing as we usually make changes to both our CSS and React packages in between publishes,
but in the future it might.

Manually changing a peer dependency of an upstream package means it’s defined statically, not dynamically.
For the next release of our upstream package, we probably want to change it back to a dynamic definition (i.e. `workspace:*`).

> Don’t forget to run `pnpm i` after doing this, to update the lockfile.

Reviewer 2: Heb de tekst nog een keer door LanguageTool gehaald. Enkele, kleine aanpassingen gedaan:

```suggestion
These dependencies mean we have to pay some extra attention when publishing. Generally, the dependencies between our packages our defined using [PNPM’s `workspace:*` feature](https://pnpm.io/workspaces#publishing-workspace-packages). This means that when publishing our upstream packages (CSS and React), the latest version of our downstream packages (tokens, assets, and React icons) are defined as dependencies.

This works, as long as the publishing at least includes new versions of both our CSS and React packages. But say, we do a publishing which only includes a new version of our tokens and assets packages. They get a new version, but our CSS and React packages don’t have any changes, which means they don’t get new versions. This means the latest version of our CSS package has a peer dependency on an older version of our tokens package.

To fix this, we can manually add the latest version of our tokens package as a peer dependency of our CSS package. In other words, we’d replace `"@amsterdam/design-system-tokens": "workspace:*"` with `"@amsterdam/design-system-tokens": "1.2.3"`. After this, please don't forget to run `pnpm i` to update the lockfile. The changes to the `package.json` and the lockfile mean we can release a new version of our CSS package, which will contain the correct peer dependency.

Seeing as our CSS package is itself also a peer dependency of our React package, in the most extreme case we would have to do something like:

1. Release a new version of our tokens or assets packages only.
2. Manually change the peer dependency of our CSS package and release that.
3. Manually change the peer dependency of our React package and release that.
This probably won’t happen frequently, seeing as we usually modify both our CSS and React packages in between publishes, but in the future it might.

Manually changing a peer dependency of an upstream package means it’s defined statically, not dynamically. For the next release of our upstream package, we likely want to change it back to a dynamic definition (i.e. `workspace:*`). Please remember to run `pnpm i` after doing this, to update the lockfile.
```
